So now that we've looked at positioning and several different types of it to see how we can use them
to change the layout of our page we're going to see how we can do that slightly differently with margins.
So I'm just going to change our code to get rid of that big high there and change the position here
back to relative.
So I hope you remember that in itself doesn't make any difference.
But remember also that we can do things like this once we've set the position to be relative.
We can set the Left property to 100 pixels and that effectively gives it a margin to the left of 100
pixels.
So what's the difference then between using relative positioning and using margins.
Well let's find out.
So first of all you have got rid of the positioning completely here.
So we're not doing positioning we're using margins.
And initially I'm going to set the margin to 100 pixels.
So what does that do.
Aha.
So now we've got a margin of 100 pixels all the way round the box.
So obviously at the top left bottom and right.
So hopefully you can see straightaway that this is different to positioning even though the effect might
be we're moving it to the right and down.
We are actually creating a margin all the way around which we can actually do with positioning.
Now if we wanted our blue box here to be to the right of that then we would just float them both to
the left and I'll just do that quickly to show you that we do indeed have a margin all the way round.
So there you go.
If we stretch that out you can see we've got the margin here and now because these two are floated left
this blue box is now to the right of the green one.
But it has this margin in between it.
So that's the main difference really between positioning and margins.
And you can use them in some cases for the same thing but they are a little bit different.
So let's just look at margins and a bit more detail and see what else we can do with them.
So here we've got a margin of 100 pixels all the way round what if we wanted to have a different margin
on each edge.
Well that's pretty easy.
We could have 100 pixels and then
50 pixels.
Now let's see what that does.
OK.
So that moves it over to the left.
What we've effectively done there is we've set the top and bottom margins to 100 pixels and we've set
to the left and right margins to 50 pixels.
So if you want to pause the video and test by floating those two left you'll see that the blue one ends
up around there.
It's about 50 pixels to the right.
So that's a really handy way of setting the top and bottom ones different to the left and right ones.
But you could also set them all to something different.
So let's have something like 20 pixels and 10 pixels.
And then let's have a look.
So what's going on here is this starts at the top and then goes round clockwise.
So the top margin is 100 pixels up there.
Then if we could see it the right margin is 50 pixels.
And then the bottom margin is 20 pixels and then the left margin is 10 pixels.
You might not be able see that left margin very clearly.
So let's just convince you by taking that back up to 100 pixels and that now changes the left margin.
So that's how you set each of the margins.
Top right bottom and left individually.
One last thing that you might want to do is only set one particular margin and leave the rest as whatever
they are and you can do that using margin dash and then bottom left right top depending on which one
you want to change.
So if you wanted to set margin left to be know 150 pixels
then that would just set the left margin and it would leave the others as whatever they are.
And that's pretty much it.
So generally you would use margins when you wanted your element to remain in the flow of the page and
to spread everything out relative to it and you would use positioning if you wanted to take your element
out of the flow of the page and move it around on top of oller and other elements and that sort of thing.
Very quick challenge then to give you an opportunity to practice margins.
Can you take the blue div and make it so that it has margins of 50 pixels on the top and the bottom
and 20 pixels left and right and bonus points if you can do that in two different ways.
So 50 pixels top and bottom 20 pixels left and right go for it.
I get that worked out for you.
I'm going to show you a few different ways to do it.
In fact there were three different ways.
So the first one I'll show you is a single margin.
So we said 50 pixels top and bottom and 20 pixels left and right.
Let's have a look.
There we go.
Fifty 50 pixels at the top and the bottom and 20 left.
And if we could see it they'd be 20 on the right as well.
So that's one way of doing it that's probably the simplest solution.
Another solution is to set all of them manually like that.
And if you just have a look at that that does exactly the same thing.
So that was solution number two.
There is however a third solution.
So a super bonus marks if you got this one as well.
We could set the margin top as being 50 pixels.
I'm going to save my typing a little bit set the bottom to be 50 pixels as well.
Set the left to be 20 pixels.
And of course the right to be 20 pixels too.
And that's another way to do it.
Even though it's a little bit more long winded than the first two solutions that we had.
All right.
So that's how we use margins to move our elements around the page.
We're now going to see how we can use something very similar called padding to provide a much needed
bit of space between the edge of one element and the beginning of something inside it we'll be looking
at that in the next video.